=== PAGE 192 ===
EQUIPMENT
190
Spear (Buzzblade, Gravity, Sentinel, Tactical, Zero-Edge) 
Spears come in many varieties. Buzzblade spears vibrate 
at high frequency. Zero-edge spears employ quantum 
manufacturing to hone an edge so fine that it seems indistinct. 
The gravity spear uses a tiny gravity field generator to 
accelerate the weapon at the moment of impact. 
Staff (Battle, Carbon, Hardlight, Repeller, Sentinel) 
Staves are long and flexible, weighted on the end to provide 
extra striking power. Most staves are made from aluminum or 
fiberglass, though some are still made from wood.
Sentinel and repeller staves are made of conductive 
metal and deliver a painful, low-voltage charge that can 
stun opponents. The hardlight staff uses a core of unstable 
photonic gel to dramatically increase its mass every time it 
strikes a surface.
Starknife (Accelerated, Dimensional Slice, Lightspeed, 
Sintered, Tactical) 
Four tapered metal blades surround the central ring of a 
starknife, which can be thrown or used to stab opponents. 
Accelerated and lightspeed starknives have gas-powered 
jets that fire when the starknife is wielded. Solid auras 
surround the blades of a dimensional slice starknife, which 
are manufactured with cutting-edge metallurgic techniques. 
In a sintered starknife, the metal blades are replaced with 
compressed ceramic blades. 
Swoop Hammer (Advanced, Mach I, Mach II, Mach III, 
Tactical) 
The combat head of a swoop hammer is affixed to an elongated 
haft. The extra reach of the haft allows for a greater swinging 
arc and accelerated damage.
Taclash (Numbing, Standard) 
A tactical lash, or taclash as it is commonly called, is a length 
of nylon cord reinforced with carbon fibers. Taclashes were 
originally used by military organizations as a form of crowd 
control, and explorers and mercenaries came to appreciate the 
utility of the weapon. When a numbing taclash connects, a low 
electrical shock transmits through the lash. The shock is too 
mild to deal damage, but it can stun the target.
Unarmed Strike 
An unarmed strike can be dealt with any limb or appendage. 
Unarmed strikes deal nonlethal damage, and the damage 
from an unarmed strike is considered weapon damage for 
the purposes of effects that give you a bonus to weapon 
damage rolls.
Ammunition
Ammunition is sold in multiples, as listed in the individual 
entries in Table 7–9: Ammunition on page 179.
Arrows 
Arrow shafts are made of carbon fiber–reinforced plastic and 
have metal or ceramic heads. 
Battery (High-Capacity, Super-Capacity, Ultra-Capacity) 
Batteries charge powered weapons, but they can also be used 
to power an array of items, including powered armor and 
technological items. Batteries have a standardized size and 
weight, and items that take batteries all have a slot into which 
they fit, regardless of the item’s actual size. Weapons that use 
batteries list the highest-capacity battery they are capable of 
using as well as how many charges from the battery that each 
shot consumes.
Darts 
These light metal shafts each have a pointed tip and a reservoir 
to hold toxins or other appropriate substances that are typically 
liquid or viscous. While most combatants rely on darts to 
deliver toxins to enemies, particularly desperate or overworked 
field medics sometimes employ darts to conveniently deliver 
antitoxins, healing serums, and other beneficial drugs across 
a crowded battlefield. In these cases, medics often practice 
to improve their aim to ensure that this strategy is effective 
when employed.
Flare 
Usually made of magnesium, flares burn brightly and can deliver 
some heat. You can ignite a flare by hand without the need for a 
flare gun. A lit flare burns for 1 hour, and it can be wielded in melee 
combat as an improvised weapon that deals 1d2 fire damage.
Grenade Arrow (I–IV) 
The explosive tip of the arrow detonates on impact. A 
grenade arrow can be made using any handheld grenade. The 
miniaturized technology incorporated into the arrow increases 
its price substantially over an equivalent grenade.
Mini-Rockets 
These long, tapered shells hold combustible material as well as a 
chemical propellant.
Missile (Advanced, Tactical) 
Missiles are heavy, snub-nosed munitions with devastating 
explosive power. A missile’s damage when fired from a missile 
launcher (such as an IMDS missile launcher) is listed in its 
entry in Table 7–9: Ammunition on page 179.
Petrol Tank (High-Capacity, Standard) 
Petrol is a highly flammable blend of hydrocarbons that is used 
in flame weapons (and petrol is occasionally used by desperate 
adventurers as fuel or for other various utilitarian purposes). A 
petrol tank snaps easily into the housing of weapons that are 
specifically petrol-powered.
Rounds (Heavy, Longarm and Sniper, Small Arm) 
Cased rounds are housed in magazines, which can be fitted into 
the appropriate weapon.
Scattergun Shells 
These cartridges are packed with small metal spheres that 
scatter when the cartridge explodes.

=== PAGE 193 ===
CORE RULEBOOK
RACES
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
TACTICAL
RULES
STARSHIPS
MAGIC AND 
SPELLS
GAME
MASTERING
SETTING
PATHFINDER
LEGACY
CHARACTER 
CREATION
OVERVIEW
7
191WEAPONS
SPECIAL MATERIALS
Some weapons can be crafted using materials that have innate 
special properties. Only cartridges of ammunition and melee 
weapons that deal bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage 
can be made out of special materials. If you make a weapon out 
of more than one special material, you get the benefit of only 
the most prevalent material.
Each of the special materials described below has a defined 
game effect. Some creatures have damage reduction making 
them resistant to all but a special type of damage (such as that 
dealt by evil-aligned weapons) or damage from weapons of a 
particular material (such as cold iron). Characters may choose 
to carry several different types of weapons, depending on the 
types of creatures they most commonly encounter.
TABLE 7–12: SPECIAL MATERIALS
TYPE ITEM PRICE MODIFIER
Ammunition (adamantine alloy) +50 credits per cartridge
Weapon (adamantine alloy) +2,500 credits
Ammunition (cold iron) +9 credits per cartridge
Weapon (cold iron) +450 credits
Ammunition (silver) +6 credits per cartridge
Weapon (silver) +300 credits
Adamantine Alloy
Adamantine is a starmetal, one of several valuable metals 
mined from asteroids and planets throughout the universe. Pure 
adamantine is exceedingly rare and expensive, so weapons using 
adamantine are always made of an adamantine alloy. Weapons 
or ammunition fashioned from adamantine alloy overcome the 
damage reduction of creatures with DR/adamantine, such as 
many magical constructs, and have a natural ability to ignore 
hardness when sundering weapons or attacking objects, 
ignoring hardness less than 30 (see Breaking  Objects on 
page 409). Weapons and ammunition without metal parts can’t 
be made from adamantine alloy. 
Cold Iron
Cold iron is mined from deep underground and forged at a lower 
temperature to preserve its delicate properties. Weapons or 
ammunition fashioned from cold iron overcome the damage 
reduction of creatures with DR/cold iron, such as demons and 
fey. Weapons or ammunition without metal parts can’t be made 
from cold iron. 
Silver
A complex process involving alchemy, magic, and metallurgy can 
bond silver to weapons or ammunition so that they overcome 
the damage reduction of creatures with DR/silver, such as 
lycanthropes. The silvering process can’t be applied to nonmetal 
items, and it doesn’t work on rare metals such as adamantine, 
cold iron, or starmetals.
WEAPON FUSIONS
A weapon fusion is a small, prepackaged add-on that can be 
attached to any weapon to infuse it with magic. Adventurers 
use weapon fusions to customize their weapons for a specific 
enemy or to increase a weapon’s overall effectiveness. 
Weapon fusions are magic unless stated otherwise. 
While this causes the weapons they are installed in to be 
considered hybrid items, in truth the weapon and the fusion 
still operate separately. An ability that affects a magic item 
could affect the fusion installed in a weapon, but that would 
not prevent the weapon’s core function from operating 
normally unless the weapon was also independently a magic 
device. The hybridized  fusion (see page 194) is an exception 
to this rule, as noted in its description. Weapons with 
fusions are considered magic for the purpose of overcoming 
damage reduction.
Installing and Transferring Fusions 
A fusion can be installed in a chosen weapon when it’s 
purchased or at any point afterward. It’s also possible, though 
difficult and fairly expensive, to transfer fusions from one 
weapon to another. Any character trained in Mysticism can 
transfer a fusion; this costs half as much as it would to initially 
purchase the fusion, using the level of the new weapon to 
determine the price. Characters trained in Engineering or 
Mysticism can also install fusions, if necessary (for instance, if 
the PCs find an unused fusion as part of a treasure cache, or in 
the case of a character who used Mysticism to craft a fusion; 
see page 235 for more about crafting items). In either case, 
installing or transferring a fusion takes about 10 minutes of 
uninterrupted tinkering.
Fusion Seals 
It is also possible to place a weapon fusion into a physical 
object, called a fusion seal, which can then be affixed to a 
specific weapon and even moved among different weapons. 
A fusion seal affects only weapons of a given level or less, as 
noted in parentheses after the name of the fusion seal. For 
example, a holy fusion seal that could be applied to any weapon 
of 10th level or lower would be written holy fusion seal (10th). 
Any decisions that must be made when a fusion is added to a 
weapon are made when a fusion seal is created, and they can’t 
be changed.
A fusion seal’s cost is based on the highest-level weapon the 
fusion seal can affect, and it is equal to 110% of the price of a 
weapon fusion for a weapon of that level. Removing a fusion 
seal and transferring it to a new weapon takes only 1 minute 
and does not require any specific skill training, but the fusion 
doesn’t function until the seal has been in place on a weapon for 
24 hours. A fusion seal can’t be added to a weapon if doing so 
would cause the weapon’s total level of fusions (including the 
level of the fusion seal) to exceed its item level or if the weapon 
is not a legitimate choice for the fusion within the fusion seal. 
Grenades, ammunition, and other consumable items can benefit 
from fusion seals, but the fusion seal is destroyed when the 
item is used.
A fusion seal can take the form of nearly any medallion 
or symbol, and when affixed to a weapon, it can even alter 
the aesthetics of that weapon. A thundering  fusion seal 
might cause a weapon to be etched with storm clouds, 
runes of weather, or possibly even symbols of a god of 

=== PAGE 194 ===
EQUIPMENT
192
storms if affixed by a worshiper of such a god. However, 
these alterations of appearance are not enough to conceal 
a weapon’s basic function or type (a heavy reaction cannon 
with a vorpal fusion seal is still clearly a heavy reaction 
cannon, even if its appearance is altered to feature skulls and 
symbols of the Devourer). Fusion seals that alter weapons 
to feature a specific group’s iconography are often used by 
organizations as a way of unifying the appearance of their 
members’ weaponry.
Item Level 
Each weapon fusion has an item level, and a fusion can’t be 
placed on a weapon that has a lower level than the fusion’s 
item level. Once it is attached to a weapon, a weapon fusion 
uses the weapon’s item level for any of the weapon fusion’s 
level-based effects.
Multiple Fusions and Multiple Targets
You can place multiple fusions on the same weapon, but 
only if the weapon’s item level is equal to or greater than the 
combined total of all the fusions’ item levels. A weapon cannot 
hold or benefit from additional fusions beyond this limit. A 
fusion that applies an effect to attacks applies it to all targets 
for spread weapons, automatic fire, explode weapons, and 
other effects with multiple targets.
Price 
The price of a weapon fusion depends on the item level of the 
weapon into which it’s being installed. Installing a fusion into a 
7th-level weapon costs more than applying the same fusion into 
a 6th-level weapon, for instance. You can install a fusion into a 
grenade, a piece of ammunition, or another consumable item; 
such a fusion costs half the normal price of a weapon fusion for 
a weapon of the same level.
TABLE 7–13: WEAPON FUSION PRICES
WEAPON’S ITEM LEVEL FUSION PRICE
1 120
2 360
3 440
4 680
5 720
6 1,040
7 1,560
8 2,300
9 2,600
10 3,580
11 4,880
12 6,920
13 9,760
14 11,700
15 17,800
16 27,000
17 40,500
18 60,300
19 90,000
20 135,000
WEAPON FUSION DESCRIPTIONS
Common weapon fusions are described below. 
ANARCHIC  LEVEL 2
The anarchic fusion imbues a weapon with divine energy from a 
chaotic deity. Any attacks with the weapon are chaotic-aligned. 
Damage from the weapon bypasses DR/chaotic and ignores 
the energy resistance of lawful dragons and lawful outsiders. 
The anarchic fusion can’t be added to weapons that have the 
axiomatic fusion. 
ANCHORING  LEVEL 1
A weapon with the anchoring fusion has a chance to immobilize 
its targets. The weapon gains immobilization as a critical hit 
effect. If the weapon already has a critical hit effect, choose each 
time whether to apply the weapon’s normal critical hit effect or 
the immobilization effect. A target affected by the immobilization 
critical hit effect is unable to move from its space under its own 
power for 1d4 rounds. It cannot use any form of movement, 
including teleportation effects, to change its position. If the target 
is entirely contained in a mobile object (such as a starship or large 
vehicle), the target is immobile relative to its location within that 
object. Other creatures and forces can move the target normally.
AXIOMATIC  LEVEL 2
The axiomatic fusion imbues a weapon with divine energy from 
a lawful deity. Any attacks with the weapon are lawful-aligned. 
Damage from the weapon bypasses DR/lawful and ignores the 
energy resistance of chaotic dragons and chaotic outsiders. 
The axiomatic fusion can’t be added to weapons that have the 
anarchic fusion.
BANE  LEVEL 5
The bane fusion enhances the power of critical hits against 
certain foes. Against a designated foe, the bane weapon gains 
the stunned critical hit effect (see page 182). If the weapon 
already has a critical hit effect, when you score a critical hit 
against an appropriate foe, you can apply either the weapon’s 
normal critical hit effect or the stunned effect. When you add 
this fusion to a weapon (or create it as a fusion seal), you must 
select a single creature type (aberration, animal, construct, 
dragon, fey, humanoid, magical beast, ooze, outsider, plant, 
undead, or vermin) against which it will apply. If you select 
humanoid or outsider, you must also select one subtype. The 
stunned critical hit effect applies only against creatures of 
the selected type (and subtype, if selected). Once selected, the 
creature type and subtype can’t be changed.
BLASTING  LEVEL 2
The blasting fusion allows a weapon to make a single attack as 
a blast (see the blast weapon special property on page 180) once 
per day as a full action. This attack has a maximum range of 30 
feet and deals half the weapon’s normal damage. Only ranged 
weapons that don’t have the automatic, explode, line, or thrown 
weapon special property can benefit from the blasting fusion. 
Weapons that don’t require attack rolls to affect their targets also 
can’t benefit from the blasting fusion.

=== PAGE 195 ===
CORE RULEBOOK
RACES
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
TACTICAL
RULES
STARSHIPS
MAGIC AND 
SPELLS
GAME
MASTERING
SETTING
PATHFINDER
LEGACY
CHARACTER 
CREATION
OVERVIEW
7
193WEAPONS
BLEEDING  LEVEL 5
The bleeding fusion weaves entropic energy into the weapon’s 
form. The weapon gains the bleed critical hit effect (see 
page 182). The amount of damage taken each round from this 
effect is equal to 1d6 per 5 levels of the weapon, rounded down. 
If the weapon already has a critical hit effect, when you score 
a critical hit, you can apply either the weapon’s normal critical 
hit effect or the bleed effect. Only weapons that deal piercing or 
slashing damage can have this fusion.
BURST LEVEL 2
With the burst fusion, a weapon’s energy damage can form a 
small explosion that spills onto a second target. The weapon 
gains the arc critical hit effect (see page 182). If the weapon 
already has a critical hit effect, when you score a critical hit, 
you can apply either the weapon’s normal critical hit effect or 
the arc effect. The amount of damage dealt to the secondary 
target is equal to one-third the level of the weapon with the 
burst fusion (minimum 1). Only weapons that deal acid, cold, 
electricity, fire, or sonic damage can benefit from a burst fusion. 
If your weapon deals more than one type of energy damage, 
you select one of those types for the arc critical hit effect to 
apply to secondary targets when the fusion is added.
CALLED  LEVEL 1
A weapon with the called fusion can be teleported to its 
owner’s hand as a swift action, even if the weapon is in the 
possession of another creature. This ability has a maximum 
range of 100 feet, and effects that block teleportation prevent 
the return of a called weapon. A weapon with the called fusion 
must be in your possession for at least 24 hours for this ability 
to function.
CORROSIVE  LEVEL 9
The corrosive fusion weaves the destructive power of acid 
into the weapon’s form. Half the weapon’s damage type is 
replaced with acid damage. You can activate or deactivate 
the corrosive fusion as a swift action. If the weapon already 
deals two types of damage, replace one of them with acid 
(you decide which damage type is replaced each time you 
activate the  corrosive  fusion). You can add this fusion only 
to a weapon that does not already deal acid damage. This 
fusion never causes a weapon that normally targets KAC to 
target EAC.
DEAFENING  LEVEL 3
With the deafening fusion, a weapon releases a blast of low-
frequency sonic energy on impact. The weapon gains the deafen 
critical hit effect (see page 182). If the weapon already has a 
critical hit effect, when you score a critical hit, you can apply 
either the weapon’s normal critical hit effect or the deafen 
effect. Only weapons that deal bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, 
or sonic damage can benefit from a deafening fusion.
DEFIANT  LEVEL 1
A weapon with the defiant fusion resists efforts to be removed 
from its wielder. If you are wielding it when you are knocked 
unconscious, panicked, or stunned, it stays in your hand. You also 
gain a bonus to your KAC against combat maneuvers to disarm 
the weapon equal to one-fifth the weapon’s level (minimum +1).
DEVASTATING  LEVEL 5
You can apply the devastating fusion only to a weapon with two 
or more critical hit effects. When you score a critical hit with 
a weapon that has the devastating fusion, you can select two 
of the critical hit effects to apply to the target (even if you are 
normally required to select just one critical hit effect). 
DISPELLING  LEVEL 3
A weapon with the dispelling fusion gathers spare wisps of 
latent magic during combat, which it can then unleash in a 
focused effort to dispel magic. The weapon gains dispelling 
as a critical hit effect in combat. This ability manifests only in 
high-stakes situations, so you must be in combat and facing 
a significant enemy (see page 242) for it to gain this critical 
hit effect. If there’s any doubt about whether you’re in combat 
or able to access the critical hit effect, the GM decides. If the 
weapon already has a critical hit effect, when you score a critical 
hit, you can apply either the weapon’s normal critical hit effect or 
the dispelling effect. A target affected by the dispelling critical 
hit effect is the subject of a targeted dispel magic, as the spell, 
using the weapon’s item level as the dispel check’s caster level.
DISRUPTIVE  LEVEL 3
The disruptive fusion imbues a weapon with powerful positive 
energy designed to disrupt the magical forces that allow undead 
to exist. The weapon ignores any DR and energy resistance of 
undead creatures. Only weapons that deal bludgeoning damage 
can benefit from this fusion.
HOLY FUSION
FLAMING FUSION

=== PAGE 196 ===
EQUIPMENT
194
DURABLE  LEVEL 1
The durable fusion uses magical runes and reinforcements to 
significantly increase a weapon’s toughness. When determining 
a weapon’s hardness, Hit Points, and saving throws, treat its item 
level as being 5 higher. For more about calculating these values, 
see Breaking Objects on page 409.
ENTANGLING  LEVEL 2
A weapon with the entangling fusion gains the entangle weapon 
special property (see page 181). Only a single attack each day 
may benefit from this property, and you must announce before 
making an attack that it is an entangle attack. Regardless of 
how many targets you can hit with a single attack from your 
weapon, only a single target of your choice is affected by the 
entangle condition. The entangle effect ends after 1d4 rounds 
if the target has not already escaped it. Only weapons that do 
bludgeoning, piercing, slashing, or cold damage can benefit 
from this fusion.
FLAMING  LEVEL 5
The flaming fusion imbues a weapon with the fiery power of 
a star. Half the weapon’s damage type is replaced with fire 
damage. You can activate or deactivate the flaming fusion as a 
swift action. If the weapon already deals two types of damage, 
replace one of them with fire (you decide which damage type 
to replace each time you activate the flaming fusion). You can 
add this fusion only to a weapon that does not already deal 
fire damage. This fusion never causes a weapon that normally 
targets KAC to target EAC.
FROST  LEVEL 5
The frost fusion imbues a weapon with the icy cold of a dead 
world far from its system’s sun. Half the weapon’s damage type 
is replaced with cold damage. You can activate or deactivate 
the frost fusion as a swift action. If the weapon already deals 
two types of damage, replace one of them with cold (you decide 
which damage type to replace each time you activate the frost 
fusion). You can add this fusion only to a weapon that does not 
already deal cold damage. This fusion never causes a weapon 
that normally targets KAC to target EAC.
GHOST KILLER  LEVEL 5
Attacks from a weapon with this fusion deal full damage to 
incorporeal creatures. They also pass into the Ethereal Plane, 
allowing such attacks to affect ethereal creatures normally. 
Weapons with the ghost killer  fusion can also score critical 
hits against incorporeal creatures. In addition, an incorporeal 
creature (though not an ethereal one) can pick up, move, or 
wield a ghost killer weapon.
GLAMERED  LEVEL 1
As a standard action, a weapon with the glamered fusion can 
be commanded to change its appearance to assume the form 
of another object of similar size. The weapon retains all its 
properties (including bulk) when disguised but does not radiate 
magic. Only true seeing or similar magic reveals the true nature 
of a glamered weapon while it is in disguise. After a glamered 
weapon is used to make an attack, this fusion is suppressed for 
1 minute.
HOLY  LEVEL 2
A weapon with the holy fusion becomes blessed with divine 
energy from a good deity. Any attacks with the fused weapon 
are good-aligned. Damage from the weapon bypasses DR/good 
and ignores the energy resistance of evil dragons, evil outsiders, 
and evil undead. The holy fusion cannot be added to weapons 
that have the unholy fusion.
HYBRIDIZED  LEVEL 1
A weapon with the hybridized fusion replaces much of its 
technological functions with magic counterparts. It gains the 
analog weapon special property (see page 180), and the core 
function of the weapon is considered to be a hybrid of magic 
and technology (rather than only the fusion counting as a 
hybrid item). A hybridized weapon still consumes ammunition 
and battery charges normally.
ILLUMINATING  LEVEL 1
The illuminating fusion causes a weapon to gain the bright 
weapon special property (see page 181). You can deactivate this 
fusion as a move action, in which case the weapon acts as if it 
does not have the bright property until it is reactivated (which 
also requires a move action).
KNOCKDOWN  LEVEL 6
With the knockdown fusion, a weapon disrupts a target’s 
center of gravity. The weapon gains the knockdown critical hit 
effect (see page 182). If the weapon already has a critical hit 
effect, when you score a critical hit, you can apply either the 
weapon’s normal critical hit effect or the knockdown effect. 
Only weapons that deal bludgeoning damage can benefit from 
this fusion.
MERCIFUL  LEVEL 2
A weapon with the merciful fusion often hums pleasantly when 
at rest and makes soft, airy musical noises when it is used to 
make an attack. The magic of this fusion subdues the damaging 
effect of the weapon it is added to. While this fusion is active, 
the weapon’s regular damage becomes nonlethal damage. If the 
weapon deals two types of damage, both of the damage types 
become nonlethal. You can activate or deactivate the merciful 
fusion as a swift action. 
OMINOUS LEVEL 1
A weapon with the ominous fusion trails a shadowy haze behind 
it and moans a menacing dirge in battle. The weapon gains 
intimidation as a critical hit effect. If the weapon already has 
a critical hit effect, when you score a critical hit, you can apply 
either the weapon’s normal critical hit effect or the intimidation 
effect. A target affected by the intimidation critical hit effect is 
shaken for 1d4 rounds (Fortitude save negates). A creature that 
gains the shaken condition from a weapon with the ominous 
fusion can’t gain that condition again from the same weapon 
for 24 hours. 

=== PAGE 197 ===
CORE RULEBOOK
RACES
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
TACTICAL
RULES
STARSHIPS
MAGIC AND 
SPELLS
GAME
MASTERING
SETTING
PATHFINDER
LEGACY
CHARACTER 
CREATION
OVERVIEW
7
195WEAPONS
RETURNING  LEVEL 1
You can add this fusion only to a weapon that has the thrown 
weapon special property. A returning weapon flies through the 
air back to you after you make a thrown ranged attack with it. It 
returns to you just before your next turn (and is therefore ready 
to use again in that turn). Catching the weapon when it comes 
back takes no action. If you can’t catch it, or if you have moved 
since throwing it, the weapon drops to the ground in the square 
from which you threw it.
SEEKING  LEVEL 3
The seeking fusion causes an attack from a weapon to veer 
toward its target. This negates any miss chance caused by 
the target having concealment, though it has no effect on 
miss chances from other sources (and does not offset the miss 
chance from a target having total concealment).
SHOCK  LEVEL 5
The shock fusion weaves the electrical energy of the universe into 
the weapon’s form. Half the weapon’s damage type is replaced 
with electricity damage. You can activate or deactivate the shock 
fusion as a swift action. If the weapon already deals two types of 
damage, replace one of them with electricity (you decide which 
damage type to replace each time you activate the shock fusion). 
You can add this fusion only to a weapon that does not already 
deal electricity damage. This fusion never causes a weapon that 
normally target KAC to target EAC. 
SPELLTHROWER LEVEL 2
A weapon with the spellthrower  fusion is able to have a 
single spell gem loaded into it at a time. It takes 1 minute 
to load a spell gem, and only gems containing a spell with a 
casting time of one standard action or less and a spell level 
no greater than one-quarter the weapon’s item level can be 
loaded into the weapon.
If you are proficient with and wielding the weapon, as a full 
action you can cast the spell contained within the spell gem 
rather than make a normal attack. This allows you to use the 
spell gem as if you were a spellcaster with the spell on your 
class’s spell list.
Unlike the normal rules for using a spell gem, it does not 
matter if the gem’s item level is higher than your caster level 
(even if your caster level is 0). However, if the spell gem’s item 
level is higher than your base attack bonus, once you’ve spent 
the full action to cast the spell, you must succeed at an attack 
roll with the weapon against an AC equal to the spell gem’s 
level + 1 or you fail to cast the spell. This roll represents your 
expertise with the weapon, and no actual attack or ammunition 
is used. If you fail to cast a spell from a spell gem, the spell is 
expended harmlessly and the spell gem is destroyed.
THUNDERING  LEVEL 9
The thundering fusion imbues a weapon with heightened 
frequency vibrations. Half the weapon’s damage type is 
replaced with sonic damage. You can activate or deactivate 
the thundering fusion as a swift action. If the weapon already 
deals two types of damage, replace one of them with sonic (you 
decide which damage type to replace each time you activate the 
thundering fusion). You can add this fusion only to a weapon 
that does not already deal sonic damage. This fusion never 
causes a weapon that normally target KAC to target EAC.
TRAILBLAZER  LEVEL 1
A weapon with the trailblazer fusion manages to alter the 
nature of its attacks to overcome the penalties of some natural 
environmental effects. Its attacks ignore the cover provided 
by bogs and the cover creatures submerged at least chest 
deep in water receive from attacks made from the surface. 
Fire damage dealt by the weapon to underwater targets does 
half normal damage (rather than the normal one-quarter), and 
other attacks made underwater deal full damage (rather than 
the normal half damage). 
Additionally, ranged attack rolls with the weapon don’t take 
a penalty due to the effects of storms, strong and severe winds, 
or windstorms. It can even be used to make ranged attacks in 
severe storms as if they were typical storms and in hurricane-
force winds as if they were strong winds. 
See Biomes on page 396 for more information on environments 
that impose attack penalties, and see Underwater Combat on 
page 405 for rules on attacking submerged targets.
UNHOLY  LEVEL 2
The unholy fusion imbues a weapon with divine energy from an 
evil deity. Any attacks with the fused weapon are evil-aligned. 
Damage from the weapon overcomes DR/evil and ignores the 
energy resistance of good dragons and good outsiders. The unholy 
fusion can’t be added to weapons that have the holy fusion.
VENOMOUS LEVEL 2
A weapon with the venomous fusion gains the injection weapon 
special property (see page 181). Only a single attack each day 
may benefit from this property, and you must announce before 
making an attack that it is an injection attack. Regardless of 
how many targets you can hit with a single attack from your 
weapon, only a single target of your choice is exposed to the 
drug, medicinal, or poison when you use the injection property 
in an attack. Only weapons that deal piercing or slashing 
damage can benefit from this fusion. 
VORPAL  LEVEL 10
With the vorpal fusion, a weapon can tear between the 
molecules of a creature. The weapon gains the severe wound 
critical hit effect (see page 182). If the weapon already has a 
critical hit effect, when you score a critical hit, you can apply 
either the weapon’s normal critical hit effect or the severe 
wound effect. Only a weapon that deals bludgeoning, piercing, 
or slashing damage can benefit from this fusion.
WOUNDING  LEVEL 7
The wounding fusion causes a weapon to deal exceptionally 
traumatic damage. The weapon gains the wound critical hit 
effect (see page 182). If the weapon already has a critical hit 
effect, when you score a critical hit, you can apply either the 
weapon’s normal critical hit effect or the wound effect. 

=== PAGE 198 ===
EQUIPMENT
196
A
rmor is usually the easiest and most cost-effective way 
for creatures to protect themselves. Whether you are 
skimming through space aboard a mercenary vessel, attending 
a diplomatic meeting on a space station, or descending to a 
planet’s surface to explore, armor provides you with protection 
against attacks and hostile environments. 
Modern armor is made of many different substances, including 
carbon fiber, ceramic, fabric, metal, and polymers. Most are 
constructed from a combination of materials, and some even use 
archaic materials such as animal hide. Creatures wear armor to 
protect themselves, but also to express their personal style. 
Most suits of armor consist of a helmet, gloves, boots, and 
a bodysuit that offers head-to-toe protection. Unless otherwise 
specified, the boots include a functionality that can anchor your 
feet to a solid surface in a zero-gravity environment, allowing you 
to orient yourself or return to normal footing when needed (for 
more about moving in zero-g, see page 402).
READING ARMOR TABLES
Each entry on the armor tables starting on page 197 describes a 
single suit of armor, with the following statistics.
D	 Level: The armor’s item level (see page 167).
D	 Price: This is the price in credits of the suit of armor.
D	 EAC Bonus: This is the bonus your armor adds to your Energy 
Armor Class, which protects against attacks from laser 
weapons, plasma cannons, and the like (see page 240). 
D	 KAC Bonus: This is the bonus your armor adds to your Kinetic 
Armor Class, which protects against projectiles, most melee 
weapons, and other solid objects (see page 240).
D	 Maximum Dex Bonus:  You normally add your Dexterity 
modifier to your Armor Class (for both EAC and KAC), but 
it’s limited by your armor. Your armor’s maximum Dexterity 
bonus indicates how much of your Dexterity modifier you 
can add to AC. Any excess Dexterity doesn’t raise your AC 
further and is simply ignored for this purpose.
D	 Armor Check Penalty:  You take a penalty to most Strength- 
and Dexterity-based skill checks equal to this number. See 
Chapter 5 for a more complete list of which skills apply.
D	 Speed Adjustment: While wearing the armor, your speed is 
adjusted by this number.
D	 Upgrade Slots:  You can improve your armor with magic 
and technological upgrades. This entry shows how many 
total upgrades your armor can accommodate. Some armor 
upgrades are larger or more complicated and take up multiple 
upgrade slots (see page 204.)
D	 Bulk: This is the bulk of the item (see page 167).
WEARING ARMOR
A character’s class and feats determine what kinds of armor 
they can wear. Further details about wearing armor are below.
Armor Proficiency 
If you are wearing armor with which you are not proficient, you 
take a –4 penalty to both EAC and KAC (see page 240). A character 
who is proficient only with light armor can wear heavier armor 
effectively by selecting the Heavy Armor Proficiency feat. 
Donning Armor
The time required to don or remove armor depends on its type. 
Light armor requires 4 rounds to don or remove, while heavy 
armor requires 16 rounds to don or remove. 
Armor that is at least 8th level but less than 16th level takes 
half the normal time to don or remove. Armor of 16th level or 
higher takes one-quarter the normal time to don or remove, to a 
minimum of one full action.
Modern suits of armor are designed so that you can don or 
remove armor without assistance. 
Don Hastily 
You can hastily don armor in half the normal time, to a minimum 
of one full action. The armor check penalty, maximum Dexterity 
bonus, and armor bonus for hastily donned armor are each 1 
worse than normal.
ARMOR SIZE
Armor comes in different sizes for different creatures, and you 
might have to adjust a suit of armor to fit you if it wasn’t made 
for your race. A ysoki can’t effectively wear armor made for a 
human, and a kasatha needs to adjust armor that was made 
for a two-armed creature. If it’s in doubt whether a creature 
can fit the suit, the GM decides whether the armor needs to be 
adjusted. When you buy armor new, the purchase price includes 
any adjustments.
Adjusting Armor 
If you get secondhand armor that wasn’t tailored for you, you 
can have it adjusted, which requires a successful Engineering 
check (DC = 10 + 2 × the armor’s level). Alternatively, you can 
spend 10% of the armor’s purchase price to have it adjusted by 
a professional—typically an armorsmith or anyone with multiple 
ranks in Engineering.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONS
Space can be an inhospitable place, with countless dangerous 
worlds within it. Unless otherwise specified, all armors protect 
you from a range of hazards to ensure that you can survive for 
at least a few days if you must make emergency repairs to the 
hull of a starship, explore an alien world, or endure exposure 
to an environmental breach in a space station. Some armors do 
this through an environmental field (a minor force field specially 
attuned to pressure and temperature that does not reduce 
damage from attacks), while others can be closed with helmets 
and airtight seals. The most common environmental dangers are 
detailed in Environment beginning on page 394.
Activation and Duration
A suit of armor’s environmental protections last for a number 
of days equal to its item level. Activating or deactivating these 
environmental protections takes a standard action if you are 
wearing the suit (assuming the armor was properly donned). 
If you have access to a suit that is unattended or worn by a 
ARMOR

=== PAGE 199 ===
CORE RULEBOOK
RACES
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
TACTICAL
RULES
STARSHIPS
MAGIC AND 
SPELLS
GAME
MASTERING
SETTING
PATHFINDER
LEGACY
CHARACTER 
CREATION
OVERVIEW
7
197ARMOR
TABLE 7–14: LIGHT ARMOR  
ARMOR MODEL LEVEL PRICE
EAC 
BONUS
KAC 
BONUS
MAXIMUM 
DEX BONUS
ARMOR CHECK 
PENALTY
SPEED 
ADJUSTMENT
UPGRADE 
SLOTS BULK
Estex suit I 1 410 +0 +1 +5 –1 — 2 1
Second skin 1 250 +1 +2 +5 — — 1 L
Stationwear, flight suit 1 95 +0 +1 +6 — — 0 L
Freebooter armor I 2 750 +2 +3 +4 — — 0 L
Kasatha microcord I 2 460 +1 +3 +3 –1 — 0 1
Carbon skin, graphite 3 1,220 +3 +4 +4 –1 — 1 1
Stationwear, casual 3 1,300 +1 +2 +6 — — 0 L
Defrex hide 4 2,250 +5 +5 +4 — — 1 L
Lashunta tempweave, basic 4 1,950 +4 +4 +5 — — 1 L
D-suit I 5 2,980 +5 +6 +5 — — 1 L
Estex suit II 5 2,700 +4 +5 +5 –1 — 3 1
Stationwear, business 5 2,600 +2 +3 +6 — — 0 L
Freebooter armor II 6 4,720 +6 +8 +5 — — 1 L
Kasatha microcord II 6 3,670 +6 +8 +4 –1 — 1 1
Stationwear, elite 6 4,100 +4 +5 +7 — — 0 L
Ysoki refractor suit 6 4,120 +7 +7 +5 — — 2 L
AbadarCorp travel suit, silver 7 7,250 +6 +7 +7 — — 0 L
D-suit II 7 6,900 +8 +9 +5 — — 2 L
Estex suit III 7 5,500 +7 +8 +5 –1 — 4 1
Kasatha microcord III 8 9,000 +9 +11 +5 –1 — 2 1
Lashunta tempweave, advanced 8 8,500 +9 +10 +6 — — 3 L
AbadarCorp travel suit, gold 9 12,100 +9 +10 +8 — — 0 L
D-suit III 9 13,300 +11 +12 +6 — — 3 L
Carbon skin, white carbon 10 19,650 +12 +14 +5 –1 — 3 1
Freebooter armor III 10 16,900 +12 +13 +6 — — 3 L
Kasatha microcord IV 11 23,800 +13 +15 +5 –1 — 3 1
AbadarCorp travel suit, platinum 12 34,600 +12 +13 +8 — — 0 L
Hardlight series, squad 12 30,750 +15 +15 +6 — — 4 L
D-suit IV 13 45,800 +16 +17 +6 — — 4 L
Estex suit IV 13 49,250 +15 +16 +6 –1 — 6 1
Echelon fashion, ready to wear 14 71,300 +15 +16 +8 — — 0 L
Freebooter armor IV 14 60,600 +17 +18 +6 — — 4 L
Carbon skin, diamond 15 126,400 +17 +19 +7 –1 — 4 1
Hardlight series, elite 15 123,500 +18 +18 +7 — — 4 L
Swarmsuit 15 95,200 +18 +19 +6 — — 4 L
Shotalashu armor 16 149,500 +19 +20 +7 — — 5 L
D-suit V 17 244,300 +20 +21 +7 — — 5 L
Echelon fashion, bespoke 17 285,000 +18 +19 +8 — — 0 L
Freebooter armor V 18 367,650 +20 +21 +8 — — 5 L
D-suit VI 19 552,000 +21 +22 +8 — — 6 L
Carbon skin, nanotube 20 825,000 +21 +23 +8 –1 — 6 1
Hardlight series, specialist 20 928,000 +22 +22 +8 — — 6 L
TABLE 7–15: HEAVY ARMOR
ARMOR MODEL LEVEL PRICE
EAC 
BONUS
KAC 
BONUS
MAXIMUM 
DEX BONUS
ARMOR CHECK 
PENALTY
SPEED 
ADJUSTMENT
UPGRADE 
SLOTS BULK
Ceremonial plate, troop 1 110 +1 +3 +2 –3 –10 ft. 3 3
Golemforged plating I 1 250 +2 +5 +0 –3 –10 ft. 0 3
Lashunta ringwear I 1 415 +2 +4 +2 –2 –5 ft. 0 2
Hidden soldier armor 2 465 +3 +5 +2 –2 –5 ft. 1 2
Iridishell, basic 2 755 +3 +6 +2 –2 –5 ft. 0 2
Thinplate 2 1,000 +4 +6 +2 –3 –10 ft. 1 3
Defiance series, squad 3 1,220 +5 +8 +1 –4 –10 ft. 1 3
Golemforged plating II 3 1,610 +5 +7 +2 –2 –10 ft. 1 3
Ceremonial plate, officer 4 2,275 +6 +8 +2 –2 –5 ft. 1 2
